The work done by Fukushima will first be examined, representing
earlier models of its class.
d) Each layer contains feature detecting cells with increasing
     level of conceptual complexity, the higher the layer level.
The net effect is feature detectors tolerant of
displacement and slight distortion.
This model is based on the premise that instead of
taking the feature detector to the pattern (multiplying the
number of feature detectors), we bring the pattern to the feature
detector (multiplying the pathways.)
Simple hard-wired
operators provide a many-to-one mapping from the RF area to the
feature detector.
For
instance, on the lowest layer, the classes are displacement,
scaling, and rotation.
On higher layers, the classes include
positional and set operators.
Each class has its variations
within each RF, depending on where the operator maps from, and
the degree of the mapping.
On the next level, within a layer, feature detectors take their
input from the output of the operators weighed by the optimal
feature pattern.
The output of those feature detectors
represents the degree of success with which a particular operator
maps into the optimal feature.
From this large pool of feature
detector outputs within a receptive field, the best variation and
degree for each class is selected.
Then, the optimum values
across the layer from each RF are combined to choose the best
class of operators.
Notice that while the application of the
operator class is enforced upon the layer, each RF implements the
transformation in a way that generates optimal mapping.
After one class is selected within a layer, the class is then
inhibited allowing another class to win in a second round.
Having recognized a feature for each RF on the first layer, the
output of the first layer is fed into the second layer.
Finally, on the topmost layer, a feature
detector which conceptually represents an object is selected and
the whole process terminates.
While its design premise is simple,
the number of cells required to implement it is proportional to
the number of RF's, the number of classes, the number of
variations within a class, and the number of features within each
layer.
While that the model can be augmented with
learning rules that change the weights on the feature detectors,
it fails to address how a whole new class of operators can be
learned.
This model
incorporates communication between neighboring RF, coupled with
hill climbing techniques to pick the best transformation to apply
within an RF image.
