keywords:		
(CNN) -- Despite some signs that the economy is on the mend, a lack of confidence from consumers and companies alike may hamper job growth during the next few months, economists say.
However, the unemployment rate is staggering.
Track unemployment numbers by state and industry
There is also concern that the GDP growth is largely the result of the economic stimulus implemented by the federal government and other government initiatives like the "Cash for Clunkers" program for automobiles.
Ben Bernanke, the Federal Reserve Chairman, said recently that economic conditions were better than they were a year ago, and a modest recovery was on the horizon.
Sounding a note of caution, he said: "Some important headwinds -- in particular, constrained bank lending and a weak job market -- will likely prevent the expansion from being as robust as we would hope."
Polls suggest many Americans are not confident about the economy.
More than eight in 10 Americans say that economic conditions are in poor shape, according to a recent CNN/Opinion Research Corp. poll.
See the poll results (pdf)
Ali Velshi, CNN's chief business correspondent, said it may not feel as if the economy is in a recovery until the jobless numbers decrease.
Velshi described the American economy as being founded on three pillars.
"The best thing we can say about the labor market right now is that it may be getting worse more slowly," he said.
"Jobs are likely to remain scarce for some time."
Read Bernanke's remarks (pdf)
Bernanke said jobs will likely be created next year but a high unemployment rate may still hold through 2010.
Rodriguez said there was "an ample amount of what you might think of as underemployment in the active workforce."
"What that means is, on the return to normalcy, rather than hiring people, you just raise work hours," Rodriguez said.
Consequently, the number of part-time workers who say they would like a full-time job but can't find one has doubled since the recession began, he noted.
The trend might not change until companies and business owners feel confident enough in the economy to start hiring.
They have to feel assured of a recovery to discard their caution and put their money at risk, Rodriguez said.
"They feel better, but not better enough to invest in growth," he said.
